---
layout: post
title: "Publication on Co-Simulation using Arbor"
---

# Arbor-TVB: a novel multi-scale co-simulation framework with a case study on neural-level seizure generation and whole-brain propagation

[Article](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/computational-neuroscience/articles/10.3389/fncom.2025.1731161/full)

From the abstract: 

Computational neuroscience has traditionally focused on isolated scales,
limiting understanding of brain function across multiple levels. While
microscopic models capture biophysical details of neurons, macroscopic models
describe large-scale network dynamics. Integrating these scales, however,
remains a significant challenge. In this study, we present a novel co-simulation
framework that bridges these levels by integrating the neural simulator Arbor
with The Virtual Brain (TVB) platform. Arbor enables detailed simulations from
single-compartment neurons to populations of such cells, while TVB models
whole-brain dynamics based on anatomical features and the mean neural activity
of a brain region. By linking these simulators for the first time, we provide an
example of how to model and investigate the onset of seizures in specific areas
and their propagation to the whole brain. This framework employs an MPI
intercommunicator for real-time bidirectional interaction, translating between
discrete spikes from Arbor and continuous TVB activity. Its fully modular design
enables independent model selection for each scale, requiring minimal effort to
translate activity across simulators. The novel Arbor-TVB co-simulator allows
replacement of TVB nodes with biologically realistic neuron populations,
offering insights into seizure propagation and potential intervention
strategies. The integration of Arbor and TVB marks a significant advancement in
multi-scale modeling, providing a comprehensive computational framework for
studying neural disorders and optimizing treatments.

